Update zwave_js docs (#16414)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/zwave_js.markdown

ha_domain: zwave_js
---

This integration allows you to control a Z-Wave network via the [Z-Wave JS](https://zwave-js.github.io/node-zwave-js/#/) driver.

## Quick start (Home Assistant including Supervisor)

To add Z-Wave JS to your installation, plug the Z-Wave stick into the device that runs Home Assistant. Then Go to Configuration >> Integrations in the UI. Click the "Add integration" button in the bottom right and from the list of integrations, select "Z-Wave JS" and follow the instructions shown.

Note: A new network key is automatically generated for you. If this Z-Wave stick has already paired with secure devices, you need to enter the previously used network key. Make sure that you keep a backup of this key in a safe place in case you need to move your Z-Wave stick to another device.

> If you do not run Home Assistant OS (the default installation type) or Home Assistant Supervised, please see the [advanced installation instrucitons](#advanced-installation-instructions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not run Home Assistant OS (the default installation type) or Home Assistant Supervised, please see the [advanced installation instructions](#advanced-installation-instructions).
```

> ## Getting Started with Z-Wave

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using Z-Wave
```

> When the Z-Wave integration starts up it will interview your entire Z-Wave network. Depending on the size of your network (number of nodes), this can take a while. Information about your devices is stored in cache files by Z-Wave JS. Be aware that (re)starting the Z-Wave server will cause your network to be (partially) unresponsive until the interview process is done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the Z-Wave integration starts up, it will interview your entire Z-Wave network. Depending on the number of devices paired with the Z-Wave stick, this can take a while. Information about your devices is stored in cache files by Z-Wave JS. Be aware that (re)starting the Z-Wave server will cause your network to be (partially) unresponsive until the interview process is done.
```

ha_domain: zwave_js
---

> This integration allows you to control a Z-Wave network via the [Z-Wave JS](https://zwave-js.github.io/node-zwave-js/#/) driver and it's the successor of the [previous Z-Wave integration](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/zwave/) in Home Assistant, which is now considered deprecated.

Reviewer: No need to mention other integrations.

```suggestion
This integration allows you to control a Z-Wave network via the [Z-Wave JS](https://zwave-js.github.io/node-zwave-js/#/) driver.
```

> This integration allows you to control a Z-Wave network via the [Z-Wave JS](https://zwave-js.github.io/node-zwave-js/#/) driver and it's the successor of the [previous Z-Wave integration](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/zwave/) in Home Assistant, which is now considered deprecated.

Reviewer 2: It's the successor to both `zwave` and `ozw` right? Maybe we should call both out

Reviewer 2: Disregard per balloob's comment above. We may want to instead mention this on the general zwave page: https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/z-wave/

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/tree/current/source/_docs/z-wave

Author: Yeah, let's also do a separate PR for the legacy zwave docs.

> ## Requirements

Reviewer: Above this, I would just have a getting started. Something like this, glued to the first sentence:

---

To add Z-Wave JS to your installation, plug the Z-Wave stick into the device that runs Home Assistant. Then Go to **Configuration >> Integrations** in the UI. Click the "add integration" button in the bottom right and from the list of integrations, select "Z-Wave JS" and follow the instructions shown. 

Note: A new network key is automatically generated for you. If this Z-Wave stick has already paired with secure devices, you need to enter the previously used network key.

## Advanced installation instructions

The above instructions won't work if you are using Home Assistant Container, Home Assistant Core, or you don't want to use the built-in Z-Wave JS Server add-on.

…

Author: The text is adjusted. First section is the quick start now.

Controlling your Z-Wave network using the Z-Wave JS integration has the following requirements:

1. The [Z-Wave JS Server](https://github.com/zwave-js/zwave-js-server) is the gateway between your Z-Wave USB stick and Home Assistant, think of it like a virtual bridge/hub, running in software. You can run this server separately from Home Assistant so your Z-Wave mesh will keep running if you restart or stop Home Assistant. The Home Assistant Z-Wave JS integration connects to this server with a websocket connection. You need to run this Z-Wave server before you can use the integration.

> 2. [Supported Z-Wave dongle](/docs/z-wave/controllers/#supported-z-wave-usb-sticks--hardware-modules). The Z-Wave controller dongle should be connected to the same host as where the Z-Wave JS server is running. In the configuration for the Z-Wave server you need to provide the path to this stick, Z-Wave sticks will generally be /dev/ttyACM0 and GPIO hats will generally be /dev/ttyAMA0.

Reviewer 3: Users should not use `/dev/ttyACM0` or `/dev/ttyAMA0`, instead one should use the serial by-id paths. So, let's not encourage people to do this.

Author: Sorry, copied that from zwave docs. I'll adjust.

Author: text adjusted

> 3. A 16-byte **network key** used in order to connect securely to compatible devices. It is recommended that a network key is configured as security enabled devices may not function correctly if they are not added securely. You must provide this network key in the configuration part of the Z-Wave JS Server. For new installations, a default key will be auto generated for you.

Reviewer 3: What is a 16-byte network key?

Author: Uhm, do we have some info about that that I cna use here. I couldn't find it in the current zwave docs either.

Author: Uhm, do we have some info about that that I can use here. I couldn't find it in the current zwave docs either.

Reviewer 3: The reason I trigger on this, is because of the questions on the difference in the network key between Z-Wave JS & OZW.

Reviewer 2: I would just explain it as 32 hexadecimal characters chosen at random to act as a secret to encrypt data between the controller and secure devices and then provide an example key: ec59967bd5e2d570619c3ff1fa15d16d (generated from random.org)

Reviewer 3: We have a specific key for documentation purposes... it will be rejected by the add-ons.

`2232666D100F795E5BB17F0A1BB7A146`

https://github.com/home-assistant/addons/blob/master/zwave_js/rootfs/etc/cont-init.d/config.sh#L7

4. The Z-Wave JS integration in Home Assistant. This integration connects to the Z-Wave JS Server to retrieve the info from your Z-Wave network and turns it into Home Assistant devices and entities.

## Running the Z-Wave JS Server

As stated in the above requirements, you need to run the Z-Wave JS Server somewhere in your network. There are multiple ways to run this server, we'll explain the most common ways below:

### 1. The official Z-Wave JS add-on, available from the add-on store

> This is the recommended approach if you're running the default version of Home Assistant, including the supervisor and you do not require any advanced configuration/options but just want your Z-Wave devices available to control within Home Assistant.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is the recommended approach if you're running the default version of Home Assistant, including the Supervisor and you do not require any advanced configuration/options but just want your Z-Wave devices available to control within Home Assistant.
```

### 2. The Z-Wave JS to MQTT add-on installed available from the community add-on store

> This is the recommended approach if you're running the default version of Home Assistant, including the supervisor and you like to have maximum control over your Z-Wave network and it's nodes. Despite what the name suggests, you can actually run this addon without MQTT enabled. In that case it will provide you with a full fledged, attractive and feature complete UI to manage your Z-Wave nodes and settings. The Z-Wave JS server is **included** in Zwave JS to MQTT, you enable it on the Z-Wave tab within the UI. If you install the add-on from the community repo, this will be done for you automatically.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is the recommended approach if you're running the default version of Home Assistant, including the Supervisor and you like to have maximum control over your Z-Wave network and its nodes.

Despite what the name suggests, you can actually run this addon without MQTT enabled. In that case, it will provide you with a full-fledged, attractive and feature-complete UI to manage your Z-Wave nodes and settings.

The Z-Wave JS server is **included** in Zwave JS to MQTT, you enable it on the Z-Wave tab within the UI. If you install the add-on from the community repo, this will be done for you automatically.
```

### 3. The Z-Wave JS to MQTT docker container

> This is the recommended approach if you're running the Home Assistant Core yourself, without the supervisor and it's convenient add-ons. See the [zwavejs2m1tt documentation](https://zwave-js.github.io/zwavejs2mqtt/#/getting-started/quick-start) for instructions. Important note: make sure you run a recent version of the docker image, as that contains the requires WS server option.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is the recommended approach if you're running the Home Assistant Core yourself, without the supervisor and its convenient add-ons. See the [zwavejs2mqtt documentation](https://zwave-js.github.io/zwavejs2mqtt/#/getting-started/quick-start) for instructions. Important note: make sure you run a recent version of the docker image, as that contains the required WS server option.
```

### 4. Run the Z-Wave server yourself

> This is considered a very advanced scenario where you run the (nodejs) Z-Wave JS Server (or zwavejs2mqtt) yourself. Installation and maintaining this is out of scope for this documentation. See the [Z-Wave JS server](https://github.com/zwave-js/zwave-js-server) or [zwavejs2mqtt](https://github.com/zwave-js/zwavejs2mqtt) Github repo's for information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is considered a very advanced scenario where you run the (NodeJS) Z-Wave JS Server (or zwavejs2mqtt) yourself. Installation and maintaining this is out of scope for this document. See the [Z-Wave JS server](https://github.com/zwave-js/zwave-js-server) or [zwavejs2mqtt](https://github.com/zwave-js/zwavejs2mqtt) Github repo's for information.
```

### Important note

> When you start the Z-Wave JS server, it will begin interviewing your entire Z-Wave network, depending on the size of your network (how many nodes) this can take a while, especially when started for the very first time. Information about your devices is stored in cache files by Z-Wave JS. Be aware that (re)starting the Z-Wave server will cause your network to be (partially) unresponsive until the interview process is done. While your Z-Wave mesh is permanently stored on your stick, the additional metadata is not, so when you loose the cache files (for example by switching between any of the above mentioned ways to run the server) all your nodes will have to be re-interviewed again before they can be properly controlled. You can speed up this process by manually waking up your battery powered devices. Most of the times this is a simple press on the button on those devices (see manual). In any way it is not needed to exclude/re-include devices from the mesh. Just be patient with this.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you start the Z-Wave JS server, it will begin interviewing your entire Z-Wave network, depending on the size of your network (how many nodes) this can take a while, especially when started for the very first time. Information about your devices is stored in cache files by Z-Wave JS. Be aware that (re)starting the Z-Wave server will cause your network to be (partially) unresponsive until the interview process is done.

While your Z-Wave mesh is permanently stored on your stick, the additional metadata is not, so when you lose the cache files (for example by switching between any of the above-mentioned ways to run the server) all your nodes will have to be re-interviewed again before they can be properly controlled. You can speed up this process by manually waking up your battery-powered devices. Most of the time this is a press on the button on those devices (see manual). In any way, it is not needed to exclude/re-include devices from the mesh. Just be patient with this.
```

> Make sure that the server started successfully by inspecting the logs or (in case of zwavejs2mqtt) the web UI. Give the Z-Wave controller some time to start. For zwavejs2mqtt users, you need to fill in the details for your Z-Wave stick and network key in the web interface.

## Installing and configuring the Z-Wave JS integration in Home Assistant

Once you have the Z-Wave server up and running, it's time to configure the integration in Home Assistant. This integration can be configured using the integrations in the Home Assistant frontend:

1. Click on the `+` sign to add an integration and click on **Z-Wave JS**.

> 2. If you're running full Home Assistant with supervisor, you will be presented with a dialog that asks if you want to use the Z-Wave JS Supervisor add-on. Check the box if you prefer this option. If you run the server yourself, or prefer the alternative zwavejs2mqtt addon, uncheck this box.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. If you're running full Home Assistant with Supervisor, you will be presented with a dialog that asks if you want to use the Z-Wave JS Supervisor add-on. Check the box if you prefer this option. If you run the server yourself or prefer the alternative zwavejs2mqtt addon, uncheck this box.
```

After completing the configuration flow, the Z-Wave JS integration will be
available.

> 3. If you're not running the supervisor or you've unchecked the above mentioned box, you will be asked to enter a websocket URL (defaults to ws://localhost:3000). It is very important that you fill in the correct (docker) IP/hostname here. For example for the Z-Wave JS to MQTT add-on this is ws://a0d7b954-zwavejs2mqtt:3000.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. If you're not running the Supervisor or you've unchecked the above-mentioned box, you will be asked to enter a WebSocket URL (defaults to `ws://localhost:3000`). It is very important that you fill in the correct (Docker) IP/hostname here. For example for the Z-Wave JS to MQTT add-on this is `ws://a0d7b954-zwavejs2mqtt:3000`.
```

## Configuration

At this time the configuration options for this new Z-Wave integration are still limited (but will be extended over time). Basic features like adding a new node or removing a node are available.
You can configure the Z-Wave network within Home Assistant from the Integrations configuration page. Just click "configure" on the Z-Wave JS card.

Menu: **Configuration** -> **Integrations** -> **Z-Wave JS** -> **Configure**

> Do you want more configuration options ? In that case you could either wait for these options to be added to the integration over time or you can run the zwavejs2mqtt as your default Z-Wave server (you don't have to enable/use mqtt!).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Do you want more configuration options? In that case, you could either wait for these options to be added to the integration over time or you can run the zwavejs2mqtt as your default Z-Wave server (you don't have to enable/use MQTT!).
```

ha_domain: zwave_js
---

This integration allows you to control a Z-Wave network via the [Z-Wave JS](https://zwave-js.github.io/node-zwave-js/#/) driver.

## Quick start (Home Assistant including Supervisor)

To add Z-Wave JS to your installation, plug the Z-Wave stick into the device that runs Home Assistant. Then Go to Configuration >> Integrations in the UI. Click the "Add integration" button in the bottom right and from the list of integrations, select "Z-Wave JS" and follow the instructions shown.

> Note: A new network key is automatically generated for you. If this Z-Wave stick has already paired with secure devices, you need to enter the previously used network key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: A new network key is automatically generated for you. If this Z-Wave stick has already paired with secure devices, you need to enter the previously used network key. Make sure that you keep a backup of this key in a safe place. You will need to enter the same key to be able to access the securely paired devices.
```

## Advanced installation instructions

The above instructions won't work if you are using Home Assistant Container, Home Assistant Core, or you don't want to use the built-in Z-Wave JS Server add-on. Below you'll find the more detailed set-up instructions that covers all use cases.

### Requirements

Controlling your Z-Wave network using the Z-Wave JS integration has the following requirements:

> 1. The [Z-Wave JS Server](https://github.com/zwave-js/zwave-js-server) is the gateway between your Z-Wave USB stick and Home Assistant, think of it like a virtual bridge/hub, running in software. You can run this server separately from Home Assistant so your Z-Wave mesh will keep running if you restart or stop Home Assistant. The Home Assistant Z-Wave JS integration connects to this server with a websocket connection. You need to run this Z-Wave server before you can use the integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run [Z-Wave JS Server](https://github.com/zwave-js/zwave-js-server). This application provides the connection between your Z-Wave USB stick and Home Assistant. This server runs separately from Home Assistant so your Z-Wave mesh will keep running if you restart or stop Home Assistant. The Home Assistant Z-Wave JS integration connects to this server via a websocket connection. You need to run this Z-Wave server before you can use the integration.
```

2. [Supported Z-Wave dongle](/docs/z-wave/controllers/#supported-z-wave-usb-sticks--hardware-modules). The Z-Wave controller dongle should be connected to the same host as where the Z-Wave JS server is running. In the configuration for the Z-Wave server you need to provide the path to this stick. It's recommended to use the `/dev/serial-by-id/yourdevice` version of the path to your stick, to make sure the path doesn't change over reboots. The most common known path is `/dev/serial/by-id/usb-0658_0200-if00`.

> 3. A **network key** used in order to connect securely to compatible devices. The network key consists of 32 hexadecimal characters, for example `2232666D100F795E5BB17F0A1BB7A146` It is recommended that a network key is configured as security enabled devices may not function correctly if they are not added securely. You must provide this network key in the configuration part of the Z-Wave JS Server. For new installations, a unique default key will be auto generated for you. TIP: You could use a site like random.org to create your own random network key. Make sure that you keep a backup of this key in a safe place  because you need to enter the same key if you decide to ever reinstall the Z-Wave JS Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. A **network key**. This key is used in order to connect securely to compatible devices. The network key consists of 32 hexadecimal characters, for example `2232666D100F795E5BB17F0A1BB7A146` (do not use this one, pick a random one). Without a network key security enabled devices cannot be added securely and will not function correctly. You must provide this network key in the configuration part of the Z-Wave JS Server. For new installations, a unique default key will be auto generated for you. TIP: You could use a site like random.org to create your own random network key. Make sure that you keep a backup of this key in a safe place. You will need to enter the same key to be able to access the securely paired devices.
```

> 3. A **network key** used in order to connect securely to compatible devices. The network key consists of 32 hexadecimal characters, for example `2232666D100F795E5BB17F0A1BB7A146` It is recommended that a network key is configured as security enabled devices may not function correctly if they are not added securely. You must provide this network key in the configuration part of the Z-Wave JS Server. For new installations, a unique default key will be auto generated for you. TIP: You could use a site like random.org to create your own random network key. Make sure that you keep a backup of thise key on a safe place (like backups) because you need to enter the same key if you decide to ever reinstall the Z-Wave JS Server.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. A **network key** used in order to connect securely to compatible devices. The network key consists of 32 hexadecimal characters, for example `2232666D100F795E5BB17F0A1BB7A146` It is recommended that a network key is configured as security enabled devices may not function correctly if they are not added securely. You must provide this network key in the configuration part of the Z-Wave JS Server. For new installations, a unique default key will be auto generated for you. TIP: You could use a site like random.org to create your own random network key. Make sure that you keep a backup of this key in a safe place because you need to enter the same key if you decide to ever reinstall the Z-Wave JS Server.
```

4. The Z-Wave JS integration in Home Assistant. This integration connects to the Z-Wave JS Server to retrieve the info from your Z-Wave network and turns it into Home Assistant devices and entities.

### Running the Z-Wave JS Server

As stated in the above requirements, you need to run the Z-Wave JS Server somewhere in your network. There are multiple ways to run this server, we'll explain the most common ways below:

#### 1. The official Z-Wave JS add-on, available from the add-on store

> This is the recommended approach if you're running the default version of Home Assistant, including the Supervisor and you do not require any advanced configuration/options but just want your Z-Wave devices available to control within Home Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option is only available to Home Assistant OS (the recommended installation type) and Home Assistant Supervised installations. This add-on will be automatically installed when you set up the integration on these systems.

The Z-Wave network can be configured via the built-in Z-Wave JS control panel in Home Assistant.
```

#### 2. The Z-Wave JS to MQTT add-on installed available from the community add-on store

> This is the recommended approach if you're running the default version of Home Assistant, including the Supervisor and you like to have maximum control over your Z-Wave network and its nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option is only available for Home Assistant OS (the recommended installation type) and Home Assistant Supervised installations.

This add-on includes the Z-Wave JS Server as part of the Z-Wave JS 2 MQTT application. Despite the name, MQTT is not required to run this add-on.

The Z-Wave network can be configured via the built-in Z-Wave JS control panel in Home Assistant and via the Z-Wave JS control panel built into Z-Wave JS 2 MQTT.
```

Author: Not true, Frenck created a HA addon for this too...

> Despite what the name suggests, you can actually run this add-on without MQTT enabled. In that case, it will provide you with a full-fledged, attractive and feature-complete UI to manage your Z-Wave nodes and settings.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Maybe only the first sentence? There's a lot of confusion about it...

> The Z-Wave JS server is **included** in Z-Wave JS to MQTT. You enable it on the Z-Wave tab within the UI. If you install the add-on from the community repo, this will be done for you automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: this was redundant?

Reviewer: I added it to my suggestion above. Because of how the review UI works, I can't suggest across addition and deletions.

> The Z-Wave JS server is **included** in Zwave JS to MQTT, you enable it on the Z-Wave tab within the UI. If you install the add-on from the community repo, this will be done for you automatically.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Z-Wave JS server is **included** in Zwave JS to MQTT. You enable it on the Z-Wave tab within the UI. If you install the add-on from the community repo, this will be done for you automatically.
```

#### 3. The Z-Wave JS to MQTT Docker container

> This is the recommended approach if you're running the Home Assistant Core yourself, without the supervisor and its convenient add-ons. See the [zwavejs2mqtt documentation](https://zwave-js.github.io/zwavejs2mqtt/#/getting-started/quick-start) for instructions. Important note: make sure you run a recent version of the Docker image, as that contains the required WS server option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the recommended approach if you're running Home Assistant Container. See the [zwavejs2mqtt documentation](https://zwave-js.github.io/zwavejs2mqtt/#/getting-started/quick-start) for instructions.

After installing the Docker image, make sure you enable the Z-Wave JS Server in the configuration.
```

Author: small typo: in the configuration...

> This is the recommended approach if you're running the Home Assistant Core yourself, without the supervisor and it's convenient add-ons. See the [zwavejs2m1tt documentation](https://zwave-js.github.io/zwavejs2mqtt/#/getting-started/quick-start) for instructions. Important note: make sure you run a recent version of the docker image, as that contains the required WS server option.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This is the recommended approach if you're running the Home Assistant Core yourself, without the supervisor and its convenient add-ons. See the [zwavejs2mqtt documentation](https://zwave-js.github.io/zwavejs2mqtt/#/getting-started/quick-start) for instructions. Important note: make sure you run a recent version of the docker image, as that contains the required WS server option.
```

#### 4. Run the Z-Wave server yourself

> This is considered a very advanced scenario where you run the (NodeJS) Z-Wave JS Server (or zwavejs2mqtt) yourself. Installation and maintaining this is out of scope for this document. See the [Z-Wave JS server](https://github.com/zwave-js/zwave-js-server) or [zwavejs2mqtt](https://github.com/zwave-js/zwavejs2mqtt) GitHub repository for information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is considered a very advanced use case. In this case you run the Z-Wave JS Server or zwavejs2mqtt NodeJS application directly. Installation and maintaining this is out of scope for this document. See the [Z-Wave JS server](https://github.com/zwave-js/zwave-js-server) or [zwavejs2mqtt](https://github.com/zwave-js/zwavejs2mqtt) GitHub repository for information.
```

> This is considered a very advanced scenario where you run the (NodeJS) Z-Wave JS Server (or zwavejs2mqtt) yourself. Installation and maintaining this is out of scope for this document. See the [Z-Wave JS server](https://github.com/zwave-js/zwave-js-server) or [zwavejs2mqtt](https://github.com/zwave-js/zwavejs2mqtt) Github repo's for information.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This is considered a very advanced scenario where you run the (NodeJS) Z-Wave JS Server (or zwavejs2mqtt) yourself. Installation and maintaining this is out of scope for this document. See the [Z-Wave JS server](https://github.com/zwave-js/zwave-js-server) or [zwavejs2mqtt](https://github.com/zwave-js/zwavejs2mqtt) Github repositories for information.
```

#### Important note

> When you start the Z-Wave JS server, it will begin interviewing your entire Z-Wave network, depending on the size of your network (how many nodes) this can take a while, especially when started for the very first time. Information about your devices is stored in cache files by Z-Wave JS. Be aware that (re)starting the Z-Wave server will cause your network to be (partially) unresponsive until the interview process is done.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When you start the Z-Wave JS server, it will begin interviewing your entire Z-Wave network. Depending on the size of your network (how many nodes) this can take a while, especially when started for the very first time. Information about your devices is stored in cache files by Z-Wave JS. Be aware that (re)starting the Z-Wave server will cause your network to be (partially) unresponsive until the interview process is done.
```

4. The Z-Wave JS integration in Home Assistant. This integration connects to the Z-Wave JS Server to retrieve the info from your Z-Wave network and turns it into Home Assistant devices and entities.

### Running the Z-Wave JS Server

As stated in the above requirements, you need to run the Z-Wave JS Server somewhere in your network. There are multiple ways to run this server, we'll explain the most common ways below:

#### 1. The official Z-Wave JS add-on, available from the add-on store

> This option is only available to Home Assistant OS (the recommended installation type) and Home Assistant Supervised installations. This add-on will be automatically installed when you set up the integration on these systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option is only available for Home Assistant OS (the recommended installation type) and Home Assistant Supervised installations. This add-on will be automatically installed when you set up the integration on these systems.
```

## Events

> Events are fired when you press a button on a remote (aka Central Scene support) or when a stateless value is being signalled by a device. You can test what events come in using the event developer tools in Home Assistant and subscribe to "zwave_js_event". Once you know what the event data looks like, you can use this to create automations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Events are fired when you press a button on a remote (aka Central Scene support) or when a stateless value is being signalled by a device. You can test what events come in using the event developer tools in Home Assistant and subscribe to `zwave_js_event`. Once you know what the event data looks like, you can use this to create automations.
```

This event is fired whenever a [notification](https://zwave-js.github.io/node-zwave-js/#/api/node?id=quotnotificationquot) or [value notification](https://zwave-js.github.io/node-zwave-js/#/api/node?id=quotvalue-notificationquot) event is received.

> Events are issued for example when you press some button on a Z-Wave remote (aka Central Scene support) or when some other stateless value is being signalled by your device. You can test what events come in by using the developer tools in Home Assistant and listen for "zwave_js_event". Once you know what the event data looks like, you can use this to create automations. In the future we'd like to provide you with some autogenerated device automations for these kind of events.

Reviewer 2: I know this section is new and hopefully it will help curb questions but Central Scenes are mentioned below and yet people continue to ask questions. We may want to make Scenes a section level header so it's easier to find

Author: changed the headers to make it (even) more clear

> Events are issued for example when you press some button on a Z-Wave remote (aka Central Scene support) or when some other stateless value is being signalled by your device. You can test what events come in by using the developer tools in Home Assistant and listen for "zwave_js_event". Once you know what the event data looks like, you can use this to create automations. In the future we'd like to provide you with some autogenerated device automations for these kind of events.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Events are issued for example when you press some button on a Z-Wave remote (aka Central Scene support) or when some other stateless value is being signaled by your device. You can test what events come in by using the developer tools in Home Assistant and listen for "zwave_js_event". Once you know what the event data looks like, you can use this to create automations. In the future, we'd like to provide you with some autogenerated device automations for these kinds of events.
```

#### Notifications

Notifications are events sent using the Notification command class. The `parameters` attribute in the example below is optional, and when it is included, the keys in the attribute will vary depending on the event.

> Notification exapmle:

Reviewer 2: can you fix this typo that I made?

}
```

## Current Limitations

As this integration is still in the early stages there are some important limitations to be aware of.

> - While support for the most common devices is working, some CommandClasses are not yet (fully) implemented in Z-Wave JS. You can track status [here](https://github.com/zwave-js/node-zwave-js/issues/6). For example the `Barrier Operator CommandClass` ( in plain English: garage door controllers) but the good news is that this is [almost finished](https://github.com/zwave-js/node-zwave-js/pull/1337).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- While support for the most common devices is working, some command classes are not yet (fully) implemented in Z-Wave JS. You can track the status [here](https://github.com/zwave-js/node-zwave-js/issues/6). For example the `Barrier Operator CommandClass` (in plain English: garage door controllers) are not added yet (but [almost finished](https://github.com/zwave-js/node-zwave-js/pull/1337)!).
```

- Configuration of Z-Wave nodes and/or configuration with the Home Assistant UI is currently not yet implemented. You will need to use another tool, such as [zwavejs2mqtt](https://github.com/zwave-js/zwavejs2mqtt), to manage device configuration.
- Polling is currently not supported in the integration but will be added soon as a service.
- Support for setting configuration parameters through service calls is currently not supported but may be added in a later release.
- There currently is no migration path available from any of the other Z-Wave implementations in Home Assistant. Your Z-Wave network is however stored on your stick so migrating will only require you to redo your device and entity naming.

You can keep track of the Roadmap for the Z-Wave JS integration [here](https://github.com/home-assistant-libs/zwave-js-server-python/issues/56).

## Migrating from previous Z-Wave implementations

> If you are currently running on the [`zwave`](/integrations/zwave/) or [`ozw`](/integrations/ozw/) Z-Wave integration there is **no need to switch over** to Z-Wave JS. The only thing important to know is that all/most development power currently goes to Z-Wave JS and the previous implementations are still provided as-is. They will **NOT be removed** without proper notice but in time there *might* come technical dependencies that render one or both of those integrations unusable. While both integrations will continue to exist and working, we've marked them as deprecated just to make sure that newcomers start with Z-Wave JS instead of legacy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are currently running on the [`zwave`](/integrations/zwave/) or [`ozw`](/integrations/ozw/) Z-Wave integration and it works fine, there is **no need to switch over at this time** to Z-Wave JS. It is important to know is that most development focus currently goes to Z-Wave JS. The previous implementations are still provided as-is. They will **NOT be removed** without proper notice but in time there *might* come technical dependencies that render one or both of those integrations unusable.

If you're new to Home Assistant, use Z-Wave JS. 

The `zwave` integration has been marked as deprecated and will no longer receive any updates like new device files. The `ozw` integration will receive new device files if they are provided by upstream. 
```

}
```

## Current Limitations

As this integration is still in the early stages there are some important limitations to be aware of.

> - Some advanced CommandClasses are not yet fully implemented in Z-Wave JS. No worries as all the most common devices are already working. You can track status [here](https://github.com/zwave-js/node-zwave-js/issues/6). Actually the only one that impacts HA users is Barrier Operator CC (= garage door controllers) but the good news is that this is [almost finished](https://github.com/zwave-js/node-zwave-js/pull/1337)!

Reviewer 2: > Actually the only one that impacts HA users is Barrier Operator CC

I don't think this is a fair assumption. As an example, I saw some comments about thermostat being unusable without the fan mode CC being available.

Author: I've adjusted the text

> As this integration is still in the early stages there are some important limitations to be aware of.
> 
> - Some advanced CommandClasses are not yet fully implemented in Z-Wave JS. No worries as all the most common devices are already working. You can track status [here](https://github.com/zwave-js/node-zwave-js/issues/6). Actually the only one that impacts HA users is Barrier Operator CC (= garage door controllers) but the good news is that this is [almost finished](https://github.com/zwave-js/node-zwave-js/pull/1337)!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As this integration is still in the early stages there are some important limitations to be aware of.

- Some advanced CommandClasses are not yet fully implemented in Z-Wave JS. No worries as all the most common devices are already working. You can track status [here](https://github.com/zwave-js/node-zwave-js/issues/6). Actually, the only one that impacts HA users is Barrier Operator CC (= garage door controllers) but the good news is that this is [almost finished](https://github.com/zwave-js/node-zwave-js/pull/1337)!
```

- Configuration of Z-Wave nodes and/or configuration with the Home Assistant UI is currently not yet implemented. You will need to use another tool, such as [zwavejs2mqtt](https://github.com/zwave-js/zwavejs2mqtt), to manage device configuration.
- Polling is currently not supported in the integration but will be added soon as a service.
- Support for setting configuration parameters through service calls is currently not supported but may be added in a later release.
- There currently is no migration path available from any of the other Z-Wave implementations in Home Assistant. Your Z-Wave network is however stored on your stick so migrating will only require you to redo your device and entity naming.

## Migrating from previous Z-Wave implementations

> If you are currently running on the [zwave](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/zwave/) or [ozw](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/ozw/) Z-Wave integration there is **no need to switch over** to Z-Wave JS. The only thing important to know is that all/most development power currently goes to Z-Wave JS and the previous implementations are still provided as-is. They will **NOT be removed** without proper notice but in time there *might* come technical dependencies that render one or both of those integrations unusable. While both integrations will continue to exist and working, we've marked them as deprecated just to make sure that newcomers start with Z-Wave JS instead of legacy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you are currently running on the [zwave](/integrations/zwave/) or [ozw](/integrations/ozw/) Z-Wave integration there is **no need to switch over** to Z-Wave JS. The only thing important to know is that all/most development power currently goes to Z-Wave JS and the previous implementations are still provided as-is. They will **NOT be removed** without proper notice but in time there *might* come technical dependencies that render one or both of those integrations unusable. While both integrations will continue to exist and working, we've marked them as deprecated just to make sure that newcomers start with Z-Wave JS instead of legacy.
```

> It is perfectly doable to switch over from one of the above mentioned previous integrations to the new Z-Wave JS integration. The good news is that your entire Z-Wave network is **stored on your stick** so you will not have to run through your house to recreate your network. That said, we currently do not provide a full-fledged, worry free, click-a-button, migration from old to new, we're exploring options to provide this in the future. This means that if you want to switch over now, *you* will be the migration wizard.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is perfectly doable to switch over from one of the above mentioned previous integrations to the new Z-Wave JS integration. The good news is that your entire Z-Wave network is **stored on your stick** so you will not have to run through your house to recreate your network. That said, we currently do not provide a full-fledged, worry-free, click-a-button, migration from old to new, we're exploring options to provide this in the future. This means that if you want to switch over now, *you* will be the migration wizard.
```

> ### In a nutshell this is what the migration path looks like

Reviewer 2: I think it would be great to mention this template snippet to help people because complaints about the renaming activity seemed to be pretty common:
```
{%- for node, zstates in states | selectattr('attributes.node_id', 'in', range(1000)) | groupby('attributes.node_id') %}

{%- for s in zstates %}
Node {{ node }};{{ s.name }};{{ s.entity_id }}{% endfor %}

{%- endfor %}
```

Author: I'd like to link to the forum topics petro created, maybe that's better ?

Reviewer 2: You can do that, this alternative was suggested in the google doc as a better way to copy and paste into Excel

Author: I've pasted it in the FAQ

1) Make a **backup** of your Home Assistant configuration. If you're running the supervisor this is very easy to do by creating a snapshot. You should do this so you'll be able to quickly revert if you may run into unexpected problems.

>    **! Write down/copy your Z-Wave network key somewhere, you are going to need it later.**

Reviewer 3: We have information and alert boxes for these types of things.

Reviewer 2: see here for reference: https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/documenting/create-page#html

>    **! Make a list of what node ID belongs to each device. Your network (Nodes and their config etc) is stored on the stick but the names you gave your devices and entities is not. This step is optional but will save you a lot of time later.**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   **! Make a list of what node ID belongs to each device. Your network (Nodes and their config etc) is stored on the stick but the names you gave your devices and entities are not. This step is optional but will save you a lot of time later.**
```

2) Remove the Z-Wave integration from Home Assistant: Configuration --> Integrations --> Z-Wave (or OpenZWave) --> Press the three dots and click Remove.

> 3) If you were running the OpenZwave beta, make sure to stop (or even remove) the OpenZwave add-on, also make sure it doesn't start automatically at startup.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3) If you were running the OpenZWave beta, make sure to stop (or even remove) the OpenZWave add-on, also make sure it doesn't start automatically at startup.
```

4) Restart your Home Assistant host. This step is important to make sure that your Z-Wave stick is released by the operating system.

5) Install the Z-Wave JS Server of your choice, If you run the supervisor and you'd like to run the standard add-on, you can skip this step if you want. The add-on is installed automatically for you when you choose so in the integration set-up. Remember to fill in the network key you've saved before.

> 6) Install the Z-Wave JS integration and connect it to the server. You should see your nodes being detected by Home Assistant. Carefully watch if the status of the node is "ready", this means it's been fully interviewed (and those details cached) by the Z-Wave JS driver. Battery powered nodes will only be interviewed when they wake up (at scheduled intervals) which can take from a few hours to a few days. To speed that up, you might want to consider waking the device up once. The manual of your device will tell you how to do a manual wake.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
6) Install the Z-Wave JS integration and connect it to the server. You should see your nodes being detected by Home Assistant. Carefully watch if the status of the node is "ready", this means it's been fully interviewed (and those details cached) by the Z-Wave JS driver. Battery-powered nodes will only be interviewed when they wake up (at scheduled intervals) which can take from a few hours to a few days. To speed that up, you might want to consider waking the device up once. The manual of your device will tell you how to do a manual wake.
```

> 7) Once a node hits the ready state, the entities will be created (so not before). Only at this point it is safe to rename the device (and so it's entities). You will thank yourself at this point for having that list noted down of Nodes and their names. This is actually the only real hard part of the migration as you will need to name all your devices again.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
7) Once a node hits the ready state, the entities will be created (so not before). Only at this point, it is safe to rename the device (and so its entities). You will thank yourself at this point for having that list noted down of nodes and their names. This is actually the only real hard part of the migration as you will need to name all your devices again.
```

8) Enjoy your super fast up-to-date Z-Wave network in Home Assistant with support for all modern devices!

## Frequently Asked Questions

### Can I switch between the Official Z-Wave JS add-on and Z-Wave JS to MQTT?

> You can but be aware to not run them both at the same time, only one of them can be active.
> Do remember however that switching requires a re-interview of the network. It is possible to copy the (json) cache files but that is out of scope of this manual. To prevent you from doing all the renaming work again there's a small trick to update the existing Z-Wave JS configuration with the new websocket URL: Just re-add the Z-Wave integration to Home Assistant, filling in the new/updated websocket url. There will be popup raised that this Z-Wave network is already configured but "under the hood" the websocket url is adjusted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can but be aware to not run them both at the same time, only one of them can be active.
Do remember however that switching requires a re-interview of the network. It is possible to copy the (JSON) cache files but that is out of the scope of this manual. To prevent you from doing all the renaming work again there's a small trick to update the existing Z-Wave JS configuration with the new WebSocket URL: Just re-add the Z-Wave integration to Home Assistant, filling in the new/updated WebSocket URL. There will be a popup raised that this Z-Wave network is already configured but "under the hood" the WebSocket URL is adjusted.
```

  

### I do not see any entities created for my device in Home Assistant

> Entities will be created only after the node hits the ready state (it's interview is completed). Also note that some devices (like button remotes) do not create any entities but will only provide events when a button is pressed. See the Events section how to handle those events in your automations. If you are certain that your device should have entities and you do not see them (even after a restart of Home Assistant core), that will be the time to create an issue about your problem on the Github issue tracker, see below section of Troubleshooting issues.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Entities will be created only after the node hits the ready state (its interview is completed). Also, note that some devices (like button remotes) do not create any entities but will only provide events when a button is pressed. See the events section on how to handle those events in your automations. If you are certain that your device should have entities and you do not see them (even after a restart of Home Assistant Core), that will be the time to create an issue about your problem on the GitHub issue tracker, see below section of troubleshooting issues.
```

- Polling is currently not supported in the integration but will be added soon as a service.
- Support for setting configuration parameters through service calls is currently not supported but may be added in a later release.
- There currently is no migration path available from any of the other Z-Wave implementations in Home Assistant. Your Z-Wave network is however stored on your stick so migrating will only require you to redo your device and entity naming.

## Migrating from previous Z-Wave implementations

If you are currently running on the [zwave](/integrations/zwave/) or [ozw](/integrations/ozw/) Z-Wave integration there is **no need to switch over** to Z-Wave JS. The only thing important to know is that all/most development power currently goes to Z-Wave JS and the previous implementations are still provided as-is. They will **NOT be removed** without proper notice but in time there *might* come technical dependencies that render one or both of those integrations unusable. While both integrations will continue to exist and working, we've marked them as deprecated just to make sure that newcomers start with Z-Wave JS instead of legacy.

> It is perfectly doable to switch over from one of the above mentioned previous integrations to the new Z-Wave JS integration. The good news is that your entire Z-Wave network is **stored on your stick** so you will not have to run through your house to recreate your network. That said, we currently do not provide a full-fledged, worry-free, click-a-button, migration from old to new, we're exploring options to provide this in the future. This means that if you want to switch over now, *you* will be the migration wizard.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It is perfectly doable to switch over from one of the above mentioned previous integrations to the new Z-Wave JS integration. The good news is that your entire Z-Wave network is **stored on your stick** so you will not have to run through your house to recreate your network. That said, we currently do not provide a full-fledged, worry-free, click-a-button, migration from old to new. We're exploring options to provide this in the future. This means that if you want to switch over now, *you* will be the migration wizard.
```

### In a nutshell this is what the migration path looks like

1) Make a **backup** of your Home Assistant configuration. If you're running the supervisor this is very easy to do by creating a snapshot. You should do this so you'll be able to quickly revert if you may run into unexpected problems.

   <div class='note info'>Write down/copy your Z-Wave network key somewhere, you are going to need it later.</div>

   <div class='note info'>Make a list of what node ID belongs to each device. Your network (Nodes and their config etc) is stored on the stick but the names you gave your devices and entities are not. This step is optional but will save you a lot of time later.</div>

2) Remove the Z-Wave integration from Home Assistant: Configuration --> Integrations --> Z-Wave (or OpenZWave) --> Press the three dots and click Remove.

3) If you were running the OpenZWave beta, make sure to stop (or even remove) the OpenZWave add-on, also make sure it doesn't start automatically at startup.

4) Restart your Home Assistant host. This step is important to make sure that your Z-Wave stick is released by the operating system.

> 5) Install the Z-Wave JS Server of your choice, If you run the supervisor and you'd like to run the standard add-on, you can skip this step if you want. The add-on is installed automatically for you when you choose so in the integration set-up. Remember to fill in the network key you've saved before.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
5) Install the Z-Wave JS Server of your choice. If you run the supervisor and you'd like to run the standard add-on, you can skip this step if you want. The add-on is installed automatically for you when you choose so in the integration set-up. Remember to fill in the network key you've saved before.
```

> 6) Install the Z-Wave JS integration and connect it to the server. You should see your nodes being detected by Home Assistant. Carefully watch if the status of the node is "ready", this means it's been fully interviewed (and those details cached) by the Z-Wave JS driver. Battery-powered nodes will only be interviewed when they wake up (at scheduled intervals) which can take from a few hours to a few days. To speed that up, you might want to consider waking the device up once. The manual of your device will tell you how to do a manual wake.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
6) Set up the Z-Wave JS integration and connect it to the server. You should see your nodes being detected by Home Assistant. Carefully watch if the status of the node is "ready". This means it's been fully interviewed (and those details cached) by the Z-Wave JS driver. Battery-powered nodes will only be interviewed when they wake up (at scheduled intervals) which can take from a few hours to a few days. To speed that up, you might want to consider waking the device up once. The manual of your device will tell you how to do a manual wake.
```

> 7) Once a node hits the ready state, the entities will be created (so not before). Only at this point, it is safe to rename the device (and so its entities). You will thank yourself at this point for having that list noted down of nodes and their names. This is actually the only real hard part of the migration as you will need to name all your devices again.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
7) Once a node hits the ready state, the entities will be created (so not before). Only at this point, is it safe to rename the device (and so its entities). You will thank yourself at this point for having that list noted down of nodes and their names. This is actually the only real hard part of the migration as you will need to name all your devices again.
```

### Is there a way to easily export a dump of all my current Z-Wave nodes before I migrate?

You can run the script below in the Developer Tools to get a full oversight of your nodes and their entities.

```yaml
{%- for node, zstates in states | selectattr('attributes.node_id', 'in', range(1000)) | groupby('attributes.node_id') %}

{%- for s in zstates %}
Node {{ node }};{{ s.name }};{{ s.entity_id }}{% endfor %}

{%- endfor %}
```

### Where do I need to enter the network key?

- Official Z-Wave JS add-on: In the addon configuration, directly in the supervisor.
- Z-Wave JS 2 MQTT: In the web UI, go to Settings -> Zwave -> Network Key.

> ### How can I use my OZW networkkey in zwavejs2mqtt?

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### How can I use my OZW network key in zwavejs2mqtt?
```

> You can use your existing networkkey in zwavejs2mqtt but you need to slightly adjust it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can use your existing network key in zwavejs2mqtt but you need to slightly adjust it.
```

The Z-Wave JS to MQTT project includes the Z-wave JS Server for convenience but also provides a Z-Wave Control panel and the ability (hence its name) to serve your Z-Wave network to MQTT. You can leave the MQTT Gateway disabled and only use the Control panel but you can even have the MQTT features enabled at the same time. For example to interact with Z-Wave from other devices, while the Home Assistant integration still works (as long as you keep the WS Server enabled in zwavejs2mqtt).

### Z-Wave JS to MQTT seems to provide Home Assistant integration on its own too, now I'm confused

Correct, the Z-Wave (JS) to MQTT project existed before Home Assistant even had plans to move to the Z-Wave JS Driver.
The Home Assistant integration that exists in zwavejs2mqtt is based on MQTT discovery.
The official Z-Wave JS integration is not based on MQTT and is talking directly to the Z-Wave JS Driver (using the WS Server). 

### Can I run Z-Wave JS to MQTT only for the control panel and nothing else?

Sure, in the settings of zwavejs2mqtt, make sure to enable "WS Server" and disable "Gateway".

> ### My device does not automatically update it's status in HA if I control it manually

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### My device does not automatically update its status in HA if I control it manually
```

### Is there a way to easily export a dump of all my current Z-Wave nodes before I migrate?

You can run the script below in the Developer Tools to get a full oversight of your nodes and their entities.

```yaml
{%- for node, zstates in states | selectattr('attributes.node_id', 'in', range(1000)) | groupby('attributes.node_id') %}

{%- for s in zstates %}
Node {{ node }};{{ s.name }};{{ s.entity_id }}{% endfor %}

{%- endfor %}
```

## How can I add (include) a new device to my Z-Wave network?

1. In Home Assistant, open Settings, Configuration, Z-Wave JS -> Configure.
2. Press `Add node`.
3. Press `Start Inclusion`. The Z-Wave controller is now in inclusion mode and will not respond to other commands.

> 4. Put the device you want to add in inclusion mode. refer to it's manual how this is done.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. Put the device you want to add in inclusion mode. Refer to its manual for how this is done.
```

> 5. The UI should confirm that the node was added and it will be immediately visible in Home Assistant, after a short while (seconds to minutes) the entities should also be created.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
5. The UI should confirm that the node was added and it will be immediately visible in Home Assistant. After a short while (seconds to minutes) the entities should also be created.
```

> 6. If the controller fails to add/find your device, cancel the inclusion process (to unblock your network again). It some cases it might help to first remove a node (exclusion) before you add, even when the device has not been added to this Z-Wave network yet. Another approach would be to factory reset the device. Info about that is in the manual of your device.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
6. If the controller fails to add/find your device, cancel the inclusion process (to unblock your network again). In some cases it might help to first remove a node (exclusion) before you add it, even when the device has not been added to this Z-Wave network yet. Another approach would be to factory reset the device. Info about that is in the manual of your device.
```

<div class='note info'>

> While adding devices, you have the option to use `secure inclusion`, this means that the traffic between the controller and the device will be encrypted. This adds additional overhead to the Z-Wave network so use this option with care. As a general rule of thumb it is only advised to only securely include devices that actually NEED this kind of protection. A good example is a Z-Wave door lock.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
While adding devices, you have the option to use `secure inclusion`, this means that the traffic between the controller and the device will be encrypted. This adds additional overhead to the Z-Wave network so use this option with care. As a general rule of thumb it is advised to only securely include devices that actually NEED this kind of protection. A good example is a Z-Wave door lock.
```

</div>

## How can I remove (exclude) a device from my Z-Wave network?

1. In Home Assistant, open Settings, Configuration, Z-Wave JS -> Configure.
2. Press `Remove node`.
3. Press `Start Exclusion`. The Z-Wave controller is now in exclusion mode and will not respond to other commands.

> 4. Put the device you want to remove in exclusion mode. refer to it's manual how this is done.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. Put the device you want to remove in exclusion mode. Refer to its manual for how this is done.
```
